•  MacGzip (gzip 1.2.4) -sources-

	This is the 'Readme' for the original MacGzip source, by SPDsoft
	MacGzip 0.3b2 was developed under Think C 7.0.3, in order to compile for PPC with CW and MPW using Universal Headers, many changes were necessary (Erling Johansen <ejo@vingmed.no> did it).

	This version (0.3b3) can't be built whit Think C 7.0.3 no more. The references to the Posix Library later in this document are no longer valid, since Erling has written replacements for all the Unix stuff.


•  About the sources....

MacGzip was developed mainly from two sources: gzip 1.2.4 original distribution (by Jean-loup Gailly) and the example source code from Apple's  Developer CD Series. I must mention also Timothy Murphy ("tim@maths.tcd.ie" ), whose Posix Library por Think C was used to link chmod, fstat, utime and stat (all used in gzip.c) and Quinn <quinn@cs.uwa.edu.au> (et al) for Ineternet Config Prog Kit.

(In MacGzip's readme, you can find a list of involuntary contyributions)

Part of the Apple source code comes from Snippets
(Snippets are not tested by anyone, except (presumably) the author. They are NOT to be considered the final or best way to do something. They are just bits of code that the DTS engineers and others come up with and feel might be useful to developers. Think of Snippets as a "Bucket 'o Rusty Parts" that is provided for your browsing pleasure, NOT as polished examples. A Snippet should only be used in a commercial application if YOU are sure that it does what you want. )
so, you can apply this to macgzip sources, too.

(In earlier versions, the mac code (and gzip.c) was really bad in some points. I think this time it is better,  but if you want to use somethig as example, check it carefully)(I'm still learning…)

You will need to make the includes from the 'Internet Config' folder accesible to your compiler (for instance, by coping the entire folder into your 'Symantec C++ for Macintosh' folder)

• The porting

The main folder contents GNU sources and documentation, as well as MacGzip project file and resources.  GNU sources has been modified. If you find some error here, probably is mine.
If have used some #ifdef's in most of the changes, but not in all.

Changes:

-Standard output and error by alerts.
-#define MAXSEG_64K (gzip works without this, but is required by unlzw.c in order to decompress Unix .Z files)
-Add some type/creator stuff when creating files.
-Insert here an there System Tasks to be nice with other applications and to update progress bar. (for example one call in the 'fill the input buffer' function)
-other...

Note: Some of the command line options (-vlt) are not available just because they require aditional Macintosh interface; but using Think C console, they should work.


The folder named 'macos' holds some files from Posix Library (from maths.tcd.ie), and the sources of the interface; they can be reused with some minor changes for any other file processing (input file + few parameters -> output file).

There are several ways in which this source could be improved; here you are some:

-MacGzip.c:
     High Level Events with aditional parameters
-MacErrors.c:
     Calert should use varargs!
-SPDCProg.c:
     The string on the movable modal window could be variable
       (erase string's Rect before DrawString in DrawMovable)
     Event loop in SPDSystemTask does not accept new files to process
-ThePrefs.c:
      When an old prefs file is found, the new should be ajusted to match the old.
      
• The Song

hablar como en un susurro 
que el viento se quiere llevar
se agita la ciudad dormida
otoño no acaba jamás
no tiembles por que esté oscuro
si nada nos puede pasar
te he visto mover con orgullo
hey vamos, enséñame más

no ver la luz serena
bajando tan suave y besar
andar desnudos por la arena
la sangre ya llega hasta el mar

no he vuelto a jurar otra vez
desde que se fue
no he vuelto a quedar otra vez
en paz

		Ciudad Dormida (BB sin sed)

			      