DIALOG 200 Document

1.1 Click here to edit your Personal preferences.

2.1 Click here to edit your Email preferences.

3.1 Click here to edit your News preferences.

4.1 Click here to edit your File Transfer preferences.

5.1 Click here to edit your preferences for Other Services.

6.1 Click here to edit your Font preferences.

7.1 Click here to edit your preferences for File Types.

8.1 Click here to edit your preferences for Helper applications.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 201 Personal

1.1 Type your real name here, for example ÒSanta ClausÓ.

2.1 Type your organisation here, for example ÒHappy Holidays, IncÓ.

3.1 Type your quote string here.  Ò>Ó is a really good idea.  If your news server gives you static about too much quoting, either quote less, or change this quote string.

4.1 Type your signature here.  This will be appended to Email and News messages that you create.  Keep it to at most four lines and keep each line to at most 75 characters.

5.1 Type your plan here.  This will be displayed by finger servers when your Mac is fingered.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 202 Email

1.1 Type your Email address here, for example Òsanat@north-pole.orgÓ.  This is the address which people should use to Email you, and will be used for such things as your reply address or anonymous FTP password.

2.1 Type the account from which you read your mail here, for example Òsanat@pop.north-pole.orgÓ.

3.1 Type your mail password here.  The password will appear as bullets Ò¥Ó.

4.1 Type the SMTP host to which mail should be sent here, for example Òmail.north-pole.orgÓ.  This will be used to send mail.

5.1 Type your extra mail headers here, for example ÒX-Favourite-Holiday: ChristmasÓ.  These will be appended to your other mail headers.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 203 News

1.1 Type your NNTP host here, for example Ònntp.north-pole.orgÓ.  This is the host from which you read news, and to which news should be posted.

2.1 Type your News authentication username here.  Just leave this blank unless you have problems with News authentication (in which case you should simply kill your system administrator).

3.1 Type your News authentication password here.  The password will appear as bullets Ò¥Ó.  Just leave this blank unless you have problems.

4.1 Type your extra news headers here, for example ÒX-Favourite-Holiday: ChristmasÓ.  These will be appended to your other news headers in messages you post.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 204 File Transfers

1.3 Use this popup menu to choose your preferred archie server.  Pretty pointless since you need to query three or four archie servers before you get an answer, but maybe one day itÕll all workÉ
1.4 Use this popup menu to choose your preferred archie server.  Pretty pointless since you need to query three or four archie servers before you get an answer, but maybe one day itÕll all workÉ

2.3 Use this popup menu to choose your preferred Info-Mac server.  This will be used in preference to the real Info-Mac server to spread the load and improve response time.
2.4 Use this popup menu to choose your preferred Info-Mac server.  This will be used in preference to the real Info-Mac server to spread the load and improve response time.

3.3 Use this popup menu to choose your preferred UMich server.  This will be used in preference to the real UMich server to spread the load and improve response time.
3.4 Use this popup menu to choose your preferred UMich server.  This will be used in preference to the real UMich server to spread the load and improve response time.

4.1 Click here to select your download folder.  Files you download will go into this folder by default.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 205 OtherServices

1.1 Type your default Ph host here, for example Òph.north-pole.orgÓ.

2.1 Type your default Finger host here, for example Òfinger.north-pole.orgÓ.

3.1 Type your default Whois host here, for example Òwhois.north-pole.orgÓ.

4.1 Type your default Telnet host here, for example Òprancer.north-pole.orgÓ.

5.1 Type your default FTP host here, for example Òftp.north-pole.orgÓ.

6.1 Type your default Gopher host here, for example Ògopher.north-pole.orgÓ.

7.1 Type your default WWW home page URL here, for example Òwww.north-pole.orgÓ.

8.1 Type your default WAIS gateway here, for example Òwais.north-pole.orgÓ.

9.1 Type your X.500 LDAP server here, for example Òldap.north-pole.orgÓ.

10.1 Type your X.500 LDAP search base here, for example Òo=Happy Holidays, c=NPÓ.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 206 Fonts

1.3 Use this popup menu to choose your list font. This is used in summary listings, for example directory or news group listings.
1.4 Use this popup menu to choose your list font. This is used in summary listings, for example directory or news group listings.

2.3 Use this popup menu to choose your list font size.
2.4 Use this popup menu to choose your list font size.

3.2 This is a sample of the list font.

4.3 Use this popup menu to choose your screen font. This is used in screen displays, for example telnet or news article windows.
4.4 Use this popup menu to choose your screen font. This is used in screen listings, for example telnet or news article windows.

5.3 Use this popup menu to choose your screen font size.
5.4 Use this popup menu to choose your screen font size.

6.2 This is a sample of the screen font.

7.3 Use this popup menu to choose your printer font. This is the printed equivalent of the screen font.
7.4 Use this popup menu to choose your printer font. This is the printed equivalent of the screen font.

8.3 Use this popup menu to choose your printer font size.
8.4 Use this popup menu to choose your printer font size.

9.2 This is a sample of the printer font.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 207 FileTypes

1.1 Click here to edit the selected file mapping.
1.2 Click here to edit the selected file mapping.  It is disabled because no entry is selected.

3.1 Click here to add a file type.

4.1 Click here to delete the selected file mapping.
4.2 Click here to delete the selected file mapping.  It is disabled because no entry is selected.

5.1 This list shows all the file mappings.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 208 Helpers

1.1 Click here to edit the selected helper application.
1.2 Click here to edit the selected helper application.  It is disabled because no entry is selected.

3.1 Click here to add a helper application.

4.1 Click here to delete the selected helper application
4.2 Click here to delete the selected helper application.  It is disabled because no entry is selected.

5.1 This list shows all the helper applications.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 400 OtherFileTransferThings

1.1 Click here to accept the information.
1.2 Click here to accept the information.  It is disabled because the information is invalid.

2.1 Click here to abort this operation.

4.1 Type the name of this server here, for example ÒNew ServerÓ.

5.1 Type the host name of this server here, for example Òserver.north-pole.orgÓ.

6.1 Type the path to the service here, for example Ò/santa/goodies/Ó.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 700 EditFileMappings

1.1 Click here to accept the information.
1.2 Click here to accept the information.  It is disabled because the information is invalid.

2.1 Click here to abort this operation.

4.1 Type the name of this file mapping here (eg ÒBinHex archiveÓ).

5.1 Type the extension here (eg Ò.hqxÓ).

6.1 Type the MIME type of this file (if you donÕt know what that means, you should have stuck with the defaults).

7.1 Click here to indicate that this is an ASCII Text file (ie, it is straight text with no useful information in the resource fork).
7.3 This is a straight ASCII Text file format with no useful information in the resource fork.

8.1 Click here to indicate that this is a binary data file (ie, it is binary with no useful information in the resource fork).
8.3 This is a binary data file with no useful information in the resource fork.

9.1 Click here to indicate that this is a real Macintosh file with information in the resource fork (and possibly the data fork).
9.3 This is a real Macintosh file with information in the resource fork (and possibly the data fork).  This file should be encoded (probably with MacBinary or BinHex) before uploading to a foreign file system.

10.2 This field shows the file type to be used for this entry. You can change this using the Choose Example button (hold the option key down to it them manually).

11.2 This field shows the file creator to be used for this entry. You can change this using the Choose Example button (hold the option key down to it them manually).

12.1 Click here to choose an example of this file type. Hold down the option key to edit the file type and creator manually.

13.2 This field shows the name of the application to be used to open files of this type.

14.1 Click here to enable post-processing of this file type.
14.3 Files of this type will be post-processed using the post-processing application.

15.2 This field shows the creator of the post-processing application.

16.1 Click here to set the post-processing application.

17.1 Click here to denote that this entry is not to be used for incoming files.
17.3 Click here to denote that this entry is to be used for incoming files.

18.1 Click here to denote that this entry is not to be used for outgoing files.
18.3 Click here to denote that this entry is to be used for outgoing files.

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 701 EditHelpers

1.1 Click here to accept the information.
1.2 Click here to accept the information.  It is disabled because the information is invalid.

2.1 Click here to abort this operation.

4.1 Type the file type code here, for example ÒTEXTÓ.

5.1 Type the file creator code here, for example ÒttxtÓ.

6.1 Type the application name here, for example ÒSimpleTextÓ

END-DIALOG

DIALOG 800 AddHelper

1.1 Click here to accept the information.
1.2 Click here to accept the information.  It is disabled because the information is invalid.

2.1 Click here to abort this operation.

4.1 Type the URL type that this helper handles (eg ÒftpÓ, ÒhttpÓ, ÒeditorÓ).

6.1 Click here to select the helper application.

END-DIALOG

MENU 129 File

0 ,,,File
1 Use this menu to manipulate files and documents.

0 ,,,New
1 Open a new preference document.
2 Open a new preference document. Not available because we donÕt like you.

0 ,,,OpenÉ
1 Open an existing preference document.
2 Open an existing preference document.  Not available because we donÕt like you.

0 ,,,Open Internet Preferences
1 Open the default Internet Preferences document.
2 Open the default Internet Preferences document.  Not available because we donÕt like you.

0

0 ,,,Close
1 Close the front window.
2 Close the front window.  Not available because there is no front window.  Obvious really.

0 ,,,Save
1 Save the current document.
2 Save the current document. Not available because there is no document open or it has already been saved.

0 ,,,Save asÉ
1 Save the current document with a new name.
2 Save the current document with a new name.  Not available because no document is open.

0

0 ,,,Quit
1 Quit this application.
2 Quit this application. Not available because this application is broken.

END-MENU

MENU 130 Edit

0 ,,,Edit
1 Use this menu to work with text.
2 Use this menu to work with text.

0 ,,,Undo
1 Undoes the previous text command.
2 Not available because the last operation cannot be undone.

0

0 ,,,Cut
1 Cuts or removes the selected text. The text is put into the clipboard.
2 Not available because no text is selected.

0 ,,,Copy
1 Copies the selected item into the clipboard.
2 Not available because nothing is selected.

0 ,,,Paste
1 Puts the current contents of the clipboard into the current selection.
2 Not available because nothing appropriate is in the clipboard or because you canÕt paste anything into the current selection.

0 ,,,Clear
1 Remove the selected text. The text is lost forever.
2 Removes the selected text. Not available because nothing that can be deleted is selected.

0 ,,,Select All
1 Select All.  If you donÕt know what this means, I suggest you go back to Macintosh Kindergarden.
2 Not available because you canÕt select anything or because you already have selected everything.

END-MENU

MENU 131 Installation

0 xxxx,,,Installation
1 Use this menu to mess with the Internet Configuration extension.

0 ,,,Install Extension
1 Installs the Internet Configuration extension.
2 Installs the Internet Configuration extension. Not available because the extension is already installed.

0 ,,,Save ExtensionÉ
1 Save the Internet Configuration extension to a file.
2 Beats me why this would be disabled.

0 ,,,Remove Extension
1 Removes the Internet Configuration extension.
2 Removes the Internet Configuration extension. Not available because the extension is not installed.

END-MENU

MENU 132 Window

0 xxxx,,,Window
1 Use this menu to bring a window to the front.

0 ,,,Main
1 Display the main document window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the main document window is already at the front.

0 ,,,Personal
1 Display the Personal window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the Personal window is already at the front.

0 ,,,Email
1 Display the Email window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the Email window is already at the front.

0 ,,,News
1 Display the News window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the News window is already at the front.

0 ,,,File Transfer
1 Display the File Transfer window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the File Transfer window is already at the front.

0 ,,,Other Services
1 Display the Other Services window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the Other Services window is already at the front.

0 ,,,Fonts
1 Display the Fonts window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the Fonts window is already at the front.

0 ,,,File Types
1 Display the File Types window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the File Types window is already at the front.

0 ,,,Helpers
1 Display the Helpers window.
2 Not available because no document is open or the Helpers window is already at the front.

END-MENU

END

(evaluate "{active}" =~ /(Å)¨1:Å/ )> dev:null
directory "{¨1}"
Perl -Sx "Balloons.pl"
rez -a -o "InternetConfig.rsrc" -ov Balloons.r
delete Balloons.r
