
Please read the UUPC distribution notes in the (Support) folder. These
are very brief notes aimed at expert users.

Installation

You probably won't make much sense of what follows unless you have installed
uucp on a Unix system before. Both pcmail and uupc read the resource file
"Profile" to get its configuration information. There are sample config files
in the (Support) folder. Edit the sample "Profile" in this package to reflect
your environment. It just contains a set of STR resources that provide a quick
and dirty simulation of Unix environment variables. Examine the file using
ResEdit: I think you will find it self-explanatory. In essence, uupc needs to
know where to find spool files, and so on. I suggest you use full pathnames
(unix style with slashes) all the time. There are a set of defaults compiled
into the programs. They are

	MAILBOX		"Postmaster"        current user's "id"
	NAME		"System admin"      current user's full name
	HOME		"guest"             current user's home dir
	DOMAIN		"mac.uucp"          domain name of this machine
	MAILDIR		"spool/mail"        where mail is kept
	CONFDIR		"lib/uucp"          where config data is kept
	SPOOLDIR	"spool/uucp"        where spooled files are kept
	PUBDIR		"spool/uucppublic"  public spool directory
	MAILSERVICE	"host"              who do we send remote mail
	NODENAME	"mac"               what is our local nodename
	DEVICE		"modem"             what is the default device
	SPEED		"1200"              what is the default speed
	TEMPDIR		"spool/tmp"         what is temp directory
    MAILCOPY    "mail.sent"         file to record outgoing mail
                                    (null string disables)
    SIGNATURE   ".signature"        file containing signature lines
    TIMEDIFF    "GMT"               time difference from GMT (a string)

One of the config items, "CONFDIR", tells uupc where to find the "Systems"
file. This is the equivalent of uucico's L.sys file, and you should edit the
enclosed sample file and put it in your CONFDIR. Use "printer" or "modem"
(or .a or .b) to specify which port to use. I have not tested the Hayes
dialling code, preferring to use the send-expect strings to control the
modem (see the enclosed sample Systems file).

Uupc/pcmail will create the file SEQF in the CONFDIR; this is a simple text
file that maintains the sequence number. The SPOOLDIR is used for obvious
purposes, and logfiles are also created there. There are various folders for
temporary files. You can also specify the mail host, your mail domain name,
the signature file (a text file that is appended to all your messages), and a
mail dir in which your mail boxes are kept.

For users

There are two applications included in this package: pcmail, used to generate
mail, and uupc used to transfer it. Pcmail has not been extensively tested; in
particular, the mail reading interface does not work. Composing mail is ok if
brain-damaged. It just uses the Think stdio libaries, so you have to type in
the message. Fortunately, you can use any Mac text editor to compose your mail
and either (a) redirect stdin or (b) copy and paste it in. I read my mail
using a text editor, and generate my replies using same. I have not spent much
time on pcmail as I would rather spend the time writing a Mac-like mail
front-end.

Mail that you send is put in a spool directory, and "Mac uupc" is used to send
the mail to your mailfeed, and to poll your mailfeed for incoming mail. At
present, you have to kick off uupc manually although I suppose something like
Quickeys 1.2 could be used for automatic overnight polls.

Some details:
a) To send mail: dbl-click pcmail. Then type in the address to which you
   want to send mail followed by the mail message. A mail message consists
   of header line, then a blank line, then the body of the message.
   Pcmail adds the To:, From: and Date: lines to your message header,
   but not the Subject: line. You can add any header lines you want to
   your message. The mail message can be pasted in from the clipboard or
   you can redirect standard input. Eg.
   
   info-mac@sumex.aim.edu < my_message
   
   where my_message is a text file contain the message. Alternatively,
   you can type or paste your message from the clipboard:
   
   info-mac@sumex.aim.edu
   Subject: A message
   
   Here is a message.....
   
b) To transfer mail: dbl-click "Mac uupc" and type in the command line you
   would have typed to uucico on Unix. E.g.
   
   -smailhost -r1 -x4
   
   to poll host "mailhost" in master mode and debugging level 4. Information
   about how to call "mailhost" is stored in the file "Systems" (see above).
   Uupc will transfer any files spooled on your machine to your host and pick
   up any mail waiting for you there.

For hackers

I tried to use the scheme in the UUPC distribution in which the common source
files were kept in a folder one level above Mac-specific ones, and were
"#included" by the system-specific files. Unfortunately, Think C wouldn't let
me #include a full pathname (I think this is fixed in Think C 4.0), so that
went out the door. Instead I keep the project files, and any common source
files in the top-level folder and source files in their respective folders.
I've also changed some of the mail headers to bring them into line with what
sendmail on Unix generates. The original author has not approved this and I
hope he doesn't mind.

Wherever possible, I tried to use stdio functions, and kept Mac-specific
changes to files in the Mac-specific folder. If you are recompiling the
sources, you should enable the "paste from clipboard" option in the stdio
libraries (look in the stdio sources). Also there's a problem with "freopen".
Look in the file "stdopen fix" i the (Support) folder for details. I've also
changed some of the logging files to make them close to Unix uucp LOGFILEs,
and also added code for the SYSLOG logfile. I also added two functions to
pcmail to turn addresses into either uucp "!" form or "%@" form. My mail host
is somewhat fussy about what addresses you give it, and yours may be as well;
#define PERCENT_ADDRS as needed (in lmail.c). This is only done on outgong
mail, by the way.

To do

Lots; e.g. a decent mail front-end, MF friendly background xfers, conversion to
a full-blown Mac application ...

Good luck!
Sak Wathanasin
Network Analysis Limited

uucp:   ...!ukc!nan!sw
other:  sw%nan.uucp@ukc.ac.uk
phone:  (+44) 242 520861
telex:  9312130355 (SW G)
snail:  Flat 4, Albany House, Lansdown Rd, Cheltenham, Glos GL50 2HY, UK

