Fabrizio Oddone
C.so Monte Cucco 59/F
10141 Torino
Italy

mallocfree documentation

This document has styles in it. You may view them with a text editor such as Tex-Edit by Tom Bender or Style (1.2.1 or later) by Marco Piovanelli, or Apple SimpleText by Tom Dowdy.

¥	FREEWARE!

¥	GENERAL INFO
×	mallocfree is meant to be used by programmers instead of the usual ANSI memory manager. It includes malloc, free, realloc, calloc, and as additional goodies getallocsize (works like _GetPtrSize/_GetHandleSize on a mallocated block; the ANSI libraries miss this routine) and ffcalloc (you pass a single parameter instead of the two parameters you are forced to give to the standard calloc; this lets you avoid a multiplication at runtime).
×	Q.: Why should I use mallocfree? _NewPtr and _NewHandle work just fine!
A.: If you are allocating/disposing memory in a time-sensitive section of code, you will discover that the Mac Memory Manager is slow. These routines are fast enough for most uses.
Q.: Why should I use mallocfree? The ANSI libraries supplied with my compiler work just fine.
A.: When I was optimizing the GW/Ada Mac compiler, it turned out that something in the Ada compiler was hysterically filling its own application heap with blocks; the bigger its memory partition, the more infuriatingly you jumped into Macsbug with error #25. The culprit was the ANSI memory manager, whose realloc routine is buggy in both Symantec and CodeWarrior 4.5 (didnÕt try with CW 5.x). My realloc works.
×	mallocfree can be used with any Mac under any System.

¥	ADDITIONAL INFO FOR PROGRAMMERS
×	If you use:
#define	USETEMPORARYMEMORY	1
the blocks will be allocated in temporary memory or in your own heap, whichever has more memory free.
Otherwise, your own heap only will be used.
×	If you use:
#define	USE64BITUNITS	1
the blocks will have a physical size (in bytes) which is a multiple of 8 (as in the original K&R version). I think this would be only useful on a PowerMac equipped with a PowerPC 620 (full 64 bit processor).
Otherwise, a multiple of 4 will be used; it saves memory.

¥	KNOWN SHORTCOMINGS
×	The memory allocated with the Macintosh Memory Manager is never released (that is, will be released when your application quits) when you dispose of the blocks with free. If you need this feature, good luck; you have the source codeÉ

¥	DISCLAIMER
×	ÒNo warranties at all, either express or impliedÉÓ ÒAll trademarks are held by their respective ownersÉÓ and all that stuff.
These routines should do no damage, but if they do then you will be on your own. Let me know of any bugs you run into, anyway.

¥	VERSION HISTORY:
×	1.0 - First release.

¥	THANKS TOÉ
×	The people who wrote the malloc/free in the K&R 2nd Edition. I started from that code.

To report bugs, suggestions, or whatever, send e-mail to gspnx@di.unito.it

Ð Fabrizio Oddone