Date: September 16, 1992
From: Manuel A. Perez (perezM#aol.com)
Subject: Copyright Info

You may distribute this program, as long as the whole package is distributed (ReadMe, source code, etc.).  You may not sell this software unless you my permission.

This program is copyrighted by the author.  Portions are
copyrighted by others.

Manuel A. Perez
EMail: perezM@aol.com

Date: September 16, 1992
From: Manuel A. Perez (perezM@aol.com)
Subject: What is Digest Browser?

Digest Browser is a Mac application that reads Info-Mac
digests.  It displays a window with two panes, the top pane
contains an index to the digest, the bottom shows the message
selected in the index.  I have used it also to read saved EMail
messages, and other digests (for example csmp, vaporware).

The release includes a Think C 5.0 project with the source
code.  It was developed using the TCL.

Have fun,

Manuel


Date: Dec 13, 1991
From: Manuel A. Perez (perezM@aol.com)
Subject: Digest Browser v1.0

This simple programs displays Info-Mac Digests in a
hierarchical editor.  A window is divided in two panes,
the top pane has the names of senders of the messages,
and the bottom pane shows the contents of the message.

Multiple documents may be opened at a time, limited only
by available memory.  The parser is based on C code written
by Mike Gleason.  His code is available in the info-mac
sources (I beleive in the Unix directory).  The original code
works for VT-100 type terminals using inverse video.

The Macintosh version was built with Symantec's THINK C
and the THINK Class Library (TCL).  I haven't decided on
what to do with the source for this project, but for now
I will keep it.  There are a few other features that I will
like to add.  Please send me  your comments and wish
lists.  I will see what I can do.  If there is enough interest
I can make the source code available (it is very small).
I was also thinking about an X-windows version, but no
time for that yet.  If you find other uses for the program,
please let me know how it behaves (right now, I save my
email files, and read them with the browser.  The file
format is similar enough that it kind-of-works).

This program has been tested in a Mac LC, II, and IIfx 
using System 6.0.7 and System 7.0.  It was developed
with THINK C 4.0.5, and recompiled with THINK C 5.0.
Be forewarned that I haven't pushed it to the limits as
far as testing for strange or abnormal situations.

Have fun,

Manuel A. Perez
EMail: perezM@aol.com

Date: March 10, 1992
From: Manuel A. Perez (perezM@aol.com)
Subject: Digest Browser v1.2

Here is an update for the Digest Browser.  This new version
features bug fixes and suggestions received since v 1.0 was
made available on info-mac.  It also includes the source code
for the whole project.

Fixes
- Scrollbar is repositioned at the top of the scrolling area
when a new item is selected in the top pane.
- Printing will print the message pane (I have no idea what
it was doing before).

New features
- New menu "Index" with the choices From, Date and Subject.
- Default choice for Index is "Subject".
- Source code is included.

This time, the program has only been tested on a Mac II,
using System 7.0.  It was developed with THINK C 5.0.
As before,  I haven't pushed it to the limits as
far as testing for strange or abnormal situations.

You may distribute this program for free, as long as
this notice is included with it.  You may not, under any
circumstances, sell this program or the source code,
or very bad things might happen to you and/or your dog.

I will like to keep track of developments to the Digest
Browser,  if you make any extensions,  could you send me
(or info-mac) a note on what you did to it?

Have fun,

Manuel A. Perez
EMail: perezM@aol.com

Date: 2 April 1992
From: Bob Boonstra (jrb@mbunix.mitre.org)
Subject: Digest Browser v1.3

Digest Browser is a program written by Manuel A. Pérez to display Info-Mac Digests in a hierarchical editor.  Version 1.3 contains the following enhancements:

• The relative size of the index and text panes can be changed
• An additional option allows display of subject, date, and author in the index
• Up/down arrow keys can be used to scroll thru the index
• The index allows access to prepended material contained in some digests

-- Bob Boonstra
-- jrb@mbunix.mitre.org

Disclaimer:  Macs are a hobby for me; my employer has nothing to do with this.

Date: Aug 30, 1992
From: Manuel A. Perez (perezM@aol.com)
Subject: Digest Browser v1.5

This version was never released.  See the comments in 1.6 for features.

Manuel A. Perez
EMail: perezM@aol.com


Date: September 16, 1992
From: Manuel A. Perez (perezM@aol.com)
Subject: Digest Browser v1.6

Here is a new version of the Digest Browser.  It has been updated to
fix a few errors, and to add some of the most requested features. 
I hope you enjoy using this program.  Keep your suggestions and ideas
coming in.

New Features & Modifications:
• It now requires System 7.0.  Let me know if this is an inconvenience,
and I will make the appropriate changes.
• Keys used for scrolling the top pane are: up/down keys (move
selection up/down one line), return/enter key (move selection down),
home/pageUp/'<' (move selection to the first item), end/pageDown/'>'
(move selection to the last item).
• Some fine tuning was performed on the parser to read the messages. 
If you find any problems reading any messages from info-mac archives,
please send me a note with the name of the archive that gave you the
problem.
• Added a Mark Item command.  You can now mark (or tag) items in the
display panel. Marked items can then be saved to a separate file.
• Added a Save Marked Items… command.  Items marked with the Mark
Item command can be saved to a different file.
• Added a Append Marked Items… command.  Items marked with the Mark
Item command can be appended to an existing file.
• Fixed the Marked Items bug described in the v1.5 release note. (version
1.5 was never released)
• Added icons for the Saved Documents.  The documents are still TEXT
documents, so they can be read with TeachText or any other text editor.
(this might not be working correctly)
• Drag and Drop now works.

There are still a few bugs, but none of them make the program unsuable.
For example, the font size on the top panel (index) is wrong when you
first open the document.  It is fixed as soon as you change the index on
the top panel.  If you have problems running out of memory, just increase
the memory partition using the Finder's Get Info command.

Hope you have fun using this program.  As before, this is a freeware, but
it is copyrighted by myself.  Portions of the program are copyright of
others.

Manuel A. Perez
EMail: perezM@aol.com



---- end ----
