Read Me=======This package contains source code for a number of nShell(tm) commands.  You may wish to review the nShell Programmer's Guide (available from a number of on-line sources) before building these commands.The nShell is a traditional scripting environment for the Apple Macintosh.  The shell is available in two forms. A light version, called nShell(tm), is freely distributable for non-commercial purposes.  A second version, called nShell-Pro(tm), is available as a commercial product.  Our goal is to make the shell environment available to as many users as possible, while providing serious users with the support and reliability of a full commercial product.This software is distributed "as is" without warranty of any kind.  The entire risk as to the quality and performance of such software is with the user.  Newport Software Development specifically disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, including but not limited to implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.  Newport Software Development shall have no liability or responsibility to the user or any other person or entity with respect to any claim, loss, liability, or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by this software.  Copyright (c) 1994 Newport Software DevelopmentYou may distribute unmodified copies of nShell(tm) commands for noncommercial purposes.  All other rights are reserved.nShell-Pro(tm) may not be distributed without the express written consent of Newport Software Development.nShell and nShell-Pro are trademarks of Newport Software Development.  Apple and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.  Think C is a trademark of Symantec Corporation.  CodeWarrior is a trademark of Metrowerks, Inc.  Other brands and their products are trademarks of their respective holders.Contact: John JensenEMail: jjensen@kaiwan.com, jjens@eworld.com, or jjensen@aol.comMail: Newport Software Development, P.O. Box 1485, Newport Beach, CA 92659