ABOUT OTHER VERSIONS
----------------------
by Troy Gaul
Infinity Systems
January 1994


This folder contains other version of the Infinity Windoid WDEF. These are versions in which different defines were used in the WindoidDefines.h file. These defines let you modify which features are supported in the compiled WDEF.

THE DEFAULT WDEF:
The default Windoid WDEF (the one found in the main folder) is compiled to use the new, thicker style titlebar, no title string in the titlebar, no support for a grow box, support for a zoom box, and support for a titlebar on the left of the window.

Here, I would like to make the comment that I, in general, don't like the looks of floating windows that have titles in the titlebar. This is mainly because with titles they tend to look like document windows, and usually, the purpose of these windows is clear without the title. Also, the support for titles in the titlebar used in the Infinity Windoid is currently dependent upon the script system that is in use. In countries where the default font cannot be displayed at less than 12 points clearly, the windoid's titlebar is too short for a title. A title is available so that I am providing a fully featured windoid WDEF for others to use, regardless of the appearance they want.

Also, a grow box is not often needed in a floating window, so this support was left out of the default WDEF. If a grow box is needed (the color floating palette in Photoshop 2.5 comes to mind, for instance), you should probably make sure to use the titlebar that is thicker. This is because the thin titlebar isn't substancial enough to support a full sized grow box (i.e. the thick titlebar looks better).

Finally, earlier version did not have the new thicker titlebar. This was mainly because when originally written, I wanted to have a WDEF that was exactly the same size as the black-and-white one that was in common use. After seeing the thicker titlebar in Photoshop 2.5, however, I began to like this appearance (as it doesn't look as flat as the thinner titlebar and therefore matches standard windows better). That is why this style is used in the default WDEF. By the way, it is exactly 2 pixels taller than the thnner one.


THINK AND MACAPP VERSIONS:
The THINK and MacApp versions of the WDEF are provided so that people using either of these WDEFs can drop in the Infinity Windoid. Aside from possibly changing the resource ID, the WDEF should not require any code changes (except that the positions of windows might have to be moved down 2 pixels, if you are using the thick titlebar style which is the case in the ones in this folder).

The THINK version is compatible with all the variation codes used by the WDEF included with the THINK environments. That is, varcode 0 is a normal windoid, varcode 2 had the tielbar on the side, and any other variation has no titlebar at all.

The MacApp version works the same as the one included with MacApp with the exception that there is no support for the 'windoid' that has a full size titlebar with a Chicago 12 title string. (You can see this used in HyperCard 2.0 for the Watcher window and a couple others.)