Version 1.8 of unshar is a minor update to provide compatibility
with sys 7, PowerPCs and all that good stuff. In fact, it no longer
runs under sys 6 or earlier.

This program and source code is in the public domain. If you want to
include it on any CDs, please do.

---
To use the stand-alone version:

1) Launch "unshar"
2) select "Extract"
3) choose a shar archive that you've downloaded
   (must be a text file).
4) select a FOLDER in which to store the extracted files
5) pick next archive or quit

For batch unsharing:

1) Select a group of files (must be TEXT files)
   and drop them into unshar when the appl's icon is
   highlighted.

Of course, if the file isn't a shar archive, ...

To use the MPW tool version, execute the following command line in
the MPW shell:

unshar -f -c creator -t type [files|-]

where files is the name of the shar file. You can also specify
std input by using the dummy filename "-"; e.g.

uudecode -u < foo.uu | unshar -

The options are:

¥	-c and -t  specifes the creator and type of the extracted files
	(defaults to "MPS " "TEXT")
¥	-f will force unshar to overwrite existing files

Not all shar files can be processed by this application,
but it will work for the ones in the sumex archives and
those in comp.binaries.mac.

This was built from source code posted by Amanda Walker of
Intercon.

---
Notes for hackers:

The same source file can be used for both MPW,Think C,  Metrowerks
CodeWarrior 68K and PPC. It will probably build with Sym 8 as well,
but I haven't tried. 

For use with Think C, you need
a) TC 7.0 or later
b) the header files distributed on the Sym 8.0 CD
c) TransSkel 3.21 or later from
   ftp://ftp.primate.wisc.edu//pub/mac/TransSkel/TransSkel-3.21.cpt.hqx


For Metrowerks, you need CW 6 (probably works with CW 5.5, but I
haven't tried).

To build a fat standalone version:

0)	Install TransSkel as per instructions in the TransSkel distribution.
1)	Using either CW 68K or Think C, build the 68K version
2)	Build using the CW PPC project - it includes the built 68K appl
    resources and all.
3)	If CodeWarrior moans about access paths, change them (in Preferences...)
	to point at the folder where you installed the TransSkel headers and libs.

For MPW, use the unshar.make that is provided; you can use the
Build command in the Build menu. I used MPW 3.3, but I think it'll
compile under 3.2 as well.

---
Sak Wathanasin
Network Analysis Limited

uucp:	...!ukc!nan!sw
other:	sw@network-analysis-ltd.co.uk
phone:  (+44) 1203 419996
snail:  178 Wainbody Ave South, Coventry CV3 6BX, UK
