Read Me
=======

This package includes a copy of the nShell-Pro(tm), its utilities, and hypertext User's Guides.  For more information, see the "nShell User's Guide" in the "doc" folder.  A "Programmer's Guide to the nShell", with example source code, is available separately.

This is the first freeware release of nShell-Pro.  Until this date, June 4 1995, it has been a commercial product.  We thank the early users of this product and hope that they will continue to benefit from the nShell.  Given that we do not plan any new versions of the product in the near future, we will be releasing full source code to the application.  Feel free to tweak the shell to fit your preferences, or to include portions of it in your own products.

You may distribute copies of the nShell(tm) and nShell-Pro(tm) for any purpose.  Modified or derivative products based upon the nShell or its components should be clearly labeled as such.

Earlier copies of the nShell files state that nShell-Pro may not be redistributed without the express written consent of Newport Software Development.  You may consider this "Read Me" file to be such written consent.

This software is distributed "as is" without warranty of any kind.  The entire risk as to the quality and performance of such software is with the user.  Newport Software Development specifically disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, including but not limited to implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.  Newport Software Development shall have no liability or responsibility to the user or any other person or entity with respect to any claim, loss, liability, or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by this software.  

Copyright (c) 1995 Newport Software Development

nShell and nShell-Pro are trademarks of Newport Software Development.  Apple and
Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.  THINK C is a
trademark of Symantec Corporation.  Other brands and their products are
trademarks of their respective holders.

Contact: John Jensen

EMail: jjensen@kaiwan.com, jjens@eworld.com, or jjensen@aol.com

Mail: Newport Software Development, P.O. Box 1485, Newport Beach, CA 92659
