/*
	Drop•MPSR
	
	Modify 'MPSR' resources for text files.
	
	Introduction
		
		Most editors used with current software development packages use MPSR resources
		for remembering things about the source files for when they are opened later.  Font,
		font size, and window position are just some of the things saved in the MPSR resource.
		
		They really aren't worth worrying about unless you habitually get text files from other
		people.  If you don't like the settings that are in the document's MPSR resource, you have
		to take the time to change the settings.  And if you just happened to receive a large number
		of source files (there are 131 source files with Newswatcher 2.0), this can take quite
		some time.
		
		Well not anymore.  After configuring Drop•MPSR, you can drop all of those text files onto
		Drop•MPSR and it will change all of the MPSR resources in the text files to reflect *your*
		preferences.  And that's not all Drop•MPSR will do...
		
		Current file modifications done by Drop•MPSR:
			1.  'MPSR' resource modification.
			2.  File creator type changing.
			3.  Automatic window staggering.
		
		Drop•MPSR will change the creator of all text files dropped on it to that of your favorite
		editor (so you don't have to use another drop app to do this).
		
		Also, for each bunch of files dropped on Drop•MPSR, the windows will be automatically
		staggered (so they won't be put right on top of each other).
		
	Configuring Drop•MPSR
	
		Currently the only way to configure Drop•MPSR is by using a resource editor (like
		ResEdit).  I did this for two reasons:
			
			1.  Once it is set up, you probably won't want to change the settings again.
			2.  This was a quick hack and wasn't really needed.
			
		There are two resources that have to be changed.  The first is the 'MPSR' resource
		with ID 1005.  I have included a template resource for the 'MPSR' resource, so editing
		it shouldn't be a problem.  NOTE: the date and rectangle items are ignored, so you don't
		have to worry about changing them.
		
		The second resource is the '•prf' resource.  I have also included a template resource for
		this resource, so it should be easy to edit, too.
		
	Notes:
		Symantec's compilers issue warnings for the '#pragma unused' statements.  They can be
		ignored, they won't effect the compilation process nor the built application.
		
	Credits
	
		There are lots of people that credit belongs to:
		
			1.  Leonard Rosenthol, Marshall Clow, and Stephan Somogyi
				(for releasing the DropShell package)
			2.  Keith Rollin
				(for providing the info about the 'MPSR' resource)
			3.  Dave Nebinger
				(that's me; I put this thing together)
			4.  And of course, some portions are © Symantec, Inc.
			
		All portions of the code are © by someone; see their respective copyright
		information.
	
	Legal Stuff
		
		The authors provide this source code as-is, with no warranties about its suitability for
		any purpose whatsoever. If you format your hard disk, or do anything else inconvenient,
		it’s not our fault.

		This source code may be distributed freely, as long as all the files remain together, are
		unaltered, and are accompanied by this documentation.
		
*/
		
