Note: str.c, strn.c, setjmp and MacTraps are part of the standard
libraries. The first three are part of the ANSI library, but
it's better not to include the whole ANSI (we've redefined some
standard functions, including printf).

 Feel free to use the source code of suntar or any part 
of it EXCLUDING THE SCSI MODULE for anything you wish: obviously,
if you use a large part of it for your programs you should remember
that suntar is freeware  (hence, your program should be free or anyway
priced accordingly  to what you've written by yourself) and that you
should mention  suntar in the documentation of your program and maybe
also in the  about box. A typical case would be your use of suntar's
windows module (the three files init windows.c, MainEvent.c and windows.c)
which was designed to be essentiallly general-purpose (part of its power
is not exploited by suntar). Small or not meaningful portions don't
need any mention (you are the judge for what "small" and "meaningful"
mean, but do not cheat!).
 The SCSI module is free but it's not public domain: in this case
you should read the copyright message in the file itself: essentially
it's the same condition as above, but "small" should be read as
"very small". For any other use of this module, please contact the
authors.
 If you distribute the source code of a program exploiting 
part of suntar, our copyright notices should remain unchanged, 
just as we've preserved the copyright notices of the source codes
we've exploited. Beware: some files contain more copyright notices,
but comments may explain that one function is totally ours.

 If you do changes to suntar, maintaining its role of tar extractor,
you may change its name (but you must make some significant
improvements, and rewrite the documentation and the about box,
remembering to write that it's an evolution of suntar). A copy
modified for your only use should tell that in the version string
of the about box and the 'vers' resource. Do not publicly release
an improvement under the name "suntar" without our permission (if
the E-mail address is no more valid, and you can't find another one,
use traditional mail, and include the listing of all changes;
remember that air mail from the USA to Italy takes about three weeks
(do they use biplanes built during World War 1 ?) ).

		Sauro & Gabriele Speranza