About TSM Fix:

Short Form:
This INIT fixes the jGNEFilter "Missing Clicks" bug, by head *and* tail
patching GetNextEvent.

Long Form:
The operating system give low-level programmers a mechanism (called the
jGNEFilter) for intercepting user events (mouse clicks, key downs, etc) and
"filtering" or modifying them before the computer processes them. Many
system extens:ons use this hook to implement special functionality in your
computer -- such as SuperClock and ObiWan -- and work transparently to the 
user. 

Since System 7.0, the operating system became much more complex. Now
the system has to manage multiple applications at once and feed the right
events to the right programs. Occasionally, one of these events does not
get sent through the filter as it should -- and the programs checking
events never have a chance to handle them properly. Typically, this
is seen when programs implement special windows or window parts -- 
clicks that are destined for interception are passed straight through
to the next window.

This system extension remedies the problem by checking events as they
are presented to the running programs. If an event has not passed through
the installed filters, this extension sends it to be filtered before
returning.

The name "TSM Fix" comes from the fact that programs using the "Text
Services Manager" (TSM) floating windows typically use the jGNEFilter
to find clicks -- and the extension fixes the system bug.

Installing:
Simply drop the extension onto the System Folder (it will be placed in
the extensions folder). There will be no visible feedback, but on restart
you should never experience that "Missing Clicks" thing. 


Distribution:
I wrote this to fix a bug that was plaguing users of certain programs I
had written. I hope that it becomes widely used, so it is free to use
and distribute. Also, if you have written software that suffers from
such "Missing Clicks", you can freely add this extension and readme to
your distribution. (Drop me a line if you do so... so I can send you an
update as necessary).

Changes in 1.01:
 * Fixed incompatibility with After Dark 3.0. (They set the jGNEFilter
   to zero -- hmmm, isn't that a bad thing?) Thanks to Eric Hon-Anderson.

Changes in 1.02:
 * Fixed incompatibility with certain extensions and debuggers that create
   processes before the Finder launches and sets up the Process Manager.

Matt Slot, fprefect@umich.edu
6/11/95
