Demonstration of Fast direct-to-screen drawing.
-----------------------------------------------

You should have received Blit.µ, Blit.c and IconBlit.rsrc. These are the
CodeWarrior project file, the source code and resources respectively.
To compile with Think C, your project should contain Blit.c, IconBlit.rsrc
and MacTraps. I have only tested it with Think C 7.0.4. I haven't tried
to compile a PowerMac native version. If you do this, let me know how you
get on.


The document 'Tutorial' contains an explanation of aspects of blitting. This is
a term given to writing directly into screen memory. I have tried to gather
together all the information which I got from various sources. The sample
code is my own work.

This is not a sprite library. If you want one I highly recommend
'Sprite Animation Toolkit' by Ingemar Ragnemalm. You can download it from
the info-mac archives or find it on many shareware CDs. It is probably on
this Apprentice CD.

This package was put together for the Apprentice 3 CD ROM.

Please don't post this code on ftp sites or bulletin boards. Please don't
include this code on shareware CDs without contacting me first. My main reason
is that I don't really want to be flooded with mail asking for help. If you
want/need help, do ask. I will try to help, but this will depend on how
much time I have on a particular day. If I get a dozen requests, I may
just throw them all out. On the other hand, I may keep the questions for
a week, decide which are the common questions, and answer them all at once.
If you send me mail and I don't answer, then it means I didn't have time.
Feel free to wait a week and try again. If I don't answer on the second or
third attempts then I am probably very busy. I like to think that I will be
able to answer all your questions (a lot of people on the net have answered
a lot of my questions, and I feel that the best way to repay them is to carry
on the tradition). I am just covering my back here by stating that I make
no promises.

If you use this code in a game (or other software) it would be great if you
acknowledge me in the about box and send me a copy of the game (make me a
registered user if appropriate, although this is left to your discretion - 
you will probably feel that you had to change so much to make it usable that 
there isn't much of my code left).

If you find this useful, drop me a line (although again I may not reply).
If you need more information about the use of this blitter, feel free to
ask me. Please don't ask me questions about GWorlds/mac toolbox in general.
This is all to be found in the Inside Mac series of books. There are a
number of Apple Tech Notes dealing with quickdraw. These can be found
on

ftp.info.apple.com

I don't remember the path.



My current email address is

elliott@ubaclu.unibas.ch.

If email to this address bounces (which it will after 1995), you can send
snail mail to

Dr Mark Elliott
23 St. James Avenue
Dunsville
Doncaster
S. Yorks
DN7 4DN
ENGLAND

It may take a while for me to answer normal mail. If you can provide an
email address for me to reply to, this will help.

Hope this is useful to someone

									Mark Elliott
