																			GNU CHESS GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
													Copyright (C) 1986,1987 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license, but changing it is not allowed.

The license agreements of most software companies keep you at the mercy of those companies.  By contrast, our general public license is intended to give everyone the right to share GNU Chess.  To make sure that you get the rights we want you to have, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.  Hence this license agreement.

Specifically, we want to make sure that you have the right to give away copies of GNU Chess, that you receive source code or else can get it if you want it, that you can change GNU Chess or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

To make sure that everyone has such rights, we have to forbid you to deprive anyone else of these rights.  For example, if you distribute copies of GNU Chess, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you must tell them their rights.

Also, for our own protection, we must make certain that everyone finds out that there is no warranty for GNU Chess.  If GNU Chess is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what they have is not what we distributed, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on our reputation.

Therefore the Free Software Foundation, Inc. makes the following terms which say what you must do to be allowed to distribute or change GNU Chess.

Copying Policies

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of GNU Chess source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each file a valid copyright notice “Copyright (C) 1986,1987 Free Software Foundation, Inc.”, containing the year of last change for the file in question; keep intact the notices on all files that refer to this License Agreement and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the GNU Chess program a copy of this License Agreement along with the program.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of GNU Chess source code or any portion of it, and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above, provided that you also do the following:

a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating who last changed such files and the date of any change; and

b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or in part contains or is a derivative of GNU Chess or any part thereof, to be freely distributed and licensed to all third parties on terms identical to those contained in this License Agreement (except that you may choose to grant more extensive warranty protection to third parties, at your option).

c) if the modified program serves as a text editor, cause it when started running in the simplest and usual way, to print an announcement including a valid copyright notice (“Copyright (C)”, the year of authorship, and all copyright owners’ names), saying that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License Agreement.

3. You may copy and distribute GNU Chess or any portion of it in compiled, executable or object code form under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you do the following:

a) cause each such copy of GNU Chess to be accompanied by the corresponding machine-readable source code; or

b) cause each such copy of GNU Chess to be accompanied by a written offer, with no time limit, to give any third party free (except for a nominal shipping charge) machine readable copy of the corresponding source code; or

c) in the case of a recipient of GNU Chess in compiled, executable or object code form (without the corresponding source code) you shall cause copies you distribute to be accompanied by a copy of the written offer of source code which you received along with the copy of GNU Chess.

4. You may not copy, sublicense, distribute or transfer GNU Chess except as expressly provided under this License Agreement.  Any attempt otherwise to copy, sublicense, distribute or transfer GNU Chess is void and your rights to use GNU Chess under this License agreement shall be automatically terminated.  However, parties who have received computer software programs from you with this License Agreement will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

Your comments and suggestions about our licensing policies and our software are welcome!  Please contact the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 1000 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02138, or call (617) 876-3296.

No Warranty

Because GNU Chess Is licensed free of charge, we provide absolutely no warranty, to the extent permitted by applicable state law.  Except when otherwise stated in writing, Free Software Foundation, Inc., and/or other parties provide GNU Chess “as is” without warranty or any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.  The entire risk as to the quality and performance of the program is with you.  Should the GNU Chess program prove defective, you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction.

In no event unless required by applicable law will Free Software Foundation, Inc., and/or any other party who may modify and redistribute GNU Chess as permitted above, be liable to you for damages, including any lost profits, lost monies, or other special, incidental, or consequential damages arising out of the use or inability to use (including but not limited to loss of data being rendered inaccurate or losses sustained by third parties or a failure of the program to operate with programs not distributed by Free Software Foundation, Inc.)  The program even if you have been advised of the possibility of such damages, or for any claim by any other party.
