
So let’s get this straight: GNU Chess Pro is my 1993 alteration of Airy ANDRE’s unathorised 1991 version of the Free Software Foundation’s wonderful GNU Chess 3.0.  All I did was re-work the interface with ResEdit 2.1.1 to make it look a little more flash, so I’m not really looking to take any credit.  Anyway, I have no connection with anybody anywhere, and certainly make no warranties, but you should read the documentation by Stuart Cracraft, the originator of this brilliant program, to know what the GNU Chess project is all about.

Just a few tips, as ANDRE’s 1991 “GNU Chess for the Mac 1.0” provided no help files:

gnuchess.book:  GNU Chess needs this document to reside in its folder, so that it may access different opening strategies.  If you’re curious, you can open gnuchess.book with a word processor (MS Word: ‘Open Any File’), and see such strategies as the famous Sicilian Defence, the Ruy Lopez opening, and even some entire matches between past grandmasters.  No Fischer-Spassky matches though.  Hmm....

Easy:  Under the options menu.  By my experience, this doesn’t make GNU Chess any easier, but you can try it anyway.

Reverse Display: Also under the option menu. If you’re a purist and insist on playing with the black pieces under player option 2, “Mac vs. Human,” select this at the opening.  You can also reverse the display during a game to see what your opposition is looking at.

Animation: Leave this on whenever possible.  The game doesn’t look half as sharp without it.

Randomize:  I have no idea what this option is.  Send ANDRE some e-mail if you have to know.

Persistent Table:  Disabled under GNU Chess 1.0, perhaps ANDRE means to do something with this under a new version.

Show Thinking: Displays GNU Chess’ analysis of the current position in the Activity window.

Show the score: Also in the Activity window.

Hint: If you have no pride left, it’s command-H.

Play now: Forces GNU Chess to stop thinking and make a move.  If you keep GNU Chess’ timer at the absolute minimum (60 moves in 5 min.) you shouldn’t need to use this option.

Undo: That’s command-Z under the Edit menu, and yes, it works.  Perfect for those gut-wrenching moments when you release your mouse button, only to see your Queen in the line of fire.  In fact, Undo is unlimited under GNU Chess, since the program can recall all previous moves from the Game Record.  However, if you undo a move, you forfeit your ability to take hints, so don’t expect GNU to completely rectify your errors.  But it’s a great way to practice specifics, like openings and endgames, and see how GNU Chess will respond to different variations.  (note: don’t expect GNU Chess to behave exactly the same way in every position — the program likes to try different variations as well).

Board position: the location of your pointer is noted at the lower right of the chess board, in the currently popular “A–Z street guide” manner, rather than the archaic ‘English descriptive’ notation.

Note that multitasking has been eliminated under GNU Chess Pro, due to the style of dialog I have selected.  Since GNU Chess eats up a fair chunk of processing power, I felt that it was worth the sacrifice in order to provide a more stylish interface.  If you need a chess program that will run in the background, the original GNU Chess for the Mac will do fine (although you'll need a radical CPU to make it worthwhile).

Thanks Stuart, thanks ANDRE.  We're not worthy.

R.W.
October 1993
Southern England
