

Ê








	Customizing this module is easy if you know how to use a resource editor. Each face is a set of resources (PICTs, snds, eyes, MENU).  

The very minimum required to get a face into the module is just a PICT. Face PICTs start at resource ID 128. So, add your face to the next free ID and update the MENU  resource (ID 1002). The MENU lists the face PICTs in order (starting at that ID 128) - just append the name of your face.  

To add moving eyes to the face you just added, you need small PICTs of that face's eyes in various positions. You may add up to 3 of these "eyes" as PICT resources with an ( ID of the face PICT multiplied by 10 ) plus 1, 2, and 3. An 'eye' resource must be added to explain where the eyes' PICT is to be drawn (a Point). This is a horizontal and vertical offset from the top/left corner of the main face PICT. A snd resource may be added. as  the same ID as the face PICT.

Example:
	I know that is a lot of gibberish up front, so do an example. I get into my favorite graphic editor and pull up a picture I found on the net. I ensure that the background is blacked out and select the whole picture, 'copy' it.  I pop into my favorite resource editor. I edit the Peek-a-boo module and 'paste' the picture in a PICT resource. I change it's resource ID to the next free ID above 128, which is 132.  

	I open the MENU resource and edit the 1002 ID and append a name to me end of it.

	I really want to have moving eyes and some sound, so I pop back into the graphic editor (still editing that face) and I tell the editor to show me rulers (or info, measurements, whatever) and I select a small rectangle that encloses the face's eyes. The info box says that the selected area started at 124, 200. I 'copy' that rectangle into a new window (in my graphical edtor) to work on.

	I pop back into the resource editor and 'paste' that eye as a PICT with an ID of 1321 (which is 132 * 10 + 1). 

I then open the 'eye' resource and add another with the same ID as the face (id 132). I've provided a template for those ResEdit users.  It is a Point - 2 16 bit values that explain the vertical offset and the horizontal offset for the eyes' PICTs.

	I pop back into the graphical editor and work on that eye picture again. I zoom in and edit the image to make it appear to look to the left. I select the picture and 'copy' it. I pop back into the resource editor and 'paste' this eye picture as PICT id 1322 (which is  132 * 10 + 2). 

	I do this same sequence to make a third eye picture looking to the right and past it into PICT ID 1323.

	Now, to I use my microphone and record myself making silly noises, and stick that resource into snd ID 132.  I am serious about the silly noises - that is me making the gorilla grunt and the parrot whistle.

	Voila! - it should work now! 

	If it doesn't, and you have double-checked the above instructions,  then contact me and I'll figure out where I went wrong in the explanation :)

			- joe

												j.t.judge@att.com or
                        JosephJ1@aol.com or
                        judge@oucsace.cs.ohiou.edu







