A C K N O W L E D G E M E N T S
---------------------------
by Troy Gaul
Infinity Systems
March 1994


In the course of creating and distributing this Windoid WDEF, it has been more than a singular effort. There are several other people who deserve recognition of their part.

First, I'd like to pay special thanks to Tom Pinkerton, who wrote a windoid WDEF from which I created this one and who, basically, taught me how to program the Macintosh.

Richard Harms deserves credit because he kept pushing me to add features (such as the System 6 color support, support for 68000 machines, and the MacApp-style). He also told me about the bugs he found, and prodded me to release the first version to the public. 

I'd like to thank Jim Petrick who sent me his modified version of the WDEF upon which version 2.5's support for a grow box was based. Also, he diagnosed and corrected a problem with the way 2.3 handled custom window color tables, and his version inspired some of the changes made to simplify the code.

Aaron Giles has given me a lot of help in getting the Infinity Windoid WDEF to compile into a Fat binary and PowerPC only version using Apple's development environment.

The book Macintosh Programming Secrets by Scott Knaster and Keith Rollin provided a couple routines (for example, SyncPorts) that helped to make the code more robust.

Thanks to MicroFrontier for letting me release this WDEF (which was originally written for Color It!) for use by others.

I'd like to thank all of those people who have registered the Infinity Windoid WDEF. Several of these people have also helped me to beta test new versions. This has helped to assure me that the latest version is the best, most stable one yet.

Finally, I need to acknowledge those people and companies who have decided to use the Infinity Windoid WDEF (whether or not they have registered, hint, hint). It is this reason for which I released this WDEF to the public in the first place, and I am glad I can help to provide a more attractive, consistent interface for users of these products.
