C O N D I T I O N S    F O R    U S E
-----------------------------
by Troy Gaul
Infinity Systems
December 1993


I hereby grand users of the Infinity Windoid WDEF permission to use a WDEF created by it (or any modified version of it) in applications (or any other type of Macintosh software like extensions -- freeware, shareware, commercial, or other) for free, subject to the terms that:

   (1)  This agreement is non-exclusive.

   (2)  I, Troy Gaul, retain the copyright to the original source code.


These two items are the only required conditions for use of the WDEF. However, I do have a few additional requests. Note, however, that these are only requests, and that they are not required conditions for use of a Windoid WDEF created by this code.

   (1)  That I be given credit for the Infinity Windoid WDEF in the copyrights or acknowledgements section of your manual or other appropriate documentation.

   (2)  That the name of the WDEF resource remains "Infinity Windoid x.x" (where x.x is replaced by the current version of the Infinity Windoid).

   (3)  That you send me the name of any package that the WDEF is used within, and that I be granted permission to use this information in a list of applications using the Infinity Windoid WDEF.

   (4)  That I receive a complimentary copy of the application in which it is used. For a commercial application, this means that I get the full package that can be registered. For a shareware application, this means I get a registered copy of the application. For an in-house application (or something similar), this item does not apply.


I would like to repeat that these last items are only requests. You are prefectly free to choose not to do any or all of them. I do not believe they should be unreasonable to anyone, but I would rather have people not do these things than not use my Windoid WDEF or bother taking the time to write one like it when that is unnecessary.

My goal in writing this WDEF and in releasing it to the public is to get it used in as many places as possible. There should no longer be any reason for a program to use an old-style black-and-white Windoid WDEF.