cicnButton README

This code is heavily based on the cicnButton CDEF version 1.0.0 by Paul Celestin. I converted the project to TPM 6.0, adapted to use the Universal headers, converted it to C++, transformed the code to conform to what I think is an ideal layout, and added two variation codes:

0x01 makes the title appear to the right of the cicn.
0x08 makes the title be drawn in the window font, not in Geneva 9

I also changed the default resource ID of the CDEF to 100.

Reinder Verlinde (reinder@neuretp.biol.ruu.nl)

The original README by Paul Celestin reads:

cicnButton CDEF version 1.0.0
by Paul Celestin
20 March 1994

Copyright © 1994 by Celestin Company
All Rights Reserved

cicnButton is a CDEF (control definition) that allows you to use cicn color icons as buttons instead of the drab black and white buttons that you are used to. You can use it just about anywhere. I've tested it on various machines. I've included a sample application that shows the CDEF in action.

VERSION HISTORY

1.0.0 - initial release

INSTRUCTIONS

To use the CDEF, copy the CDEF resource into your project's resource file. 

Then, create CNTLs with the following settings:

The BoundsRect should correspond to where you want the cicn to be displayed in your dialog.

Value should be the resource ID of the cicn you want as the default for the button. For example, you might use cicn ID 1000. In this case, the following table tells you what cicns you need and what they are used for:

1000 - default cicn
1001 - inverted cicn (when you click and hold on the control)

Visible should be set to true.

Max and Min should be set to zero, since they don't mean anything to cicnButton.

ProcID should be set to (CDEF ID * 16) + Variation. I've set the CDEF ID to 38, so in most cases, the ProcID should be set to 608.

RefCon should be set to zero.

Title can contain an optional title, if you want it displayed below the cicn.

If you do not have a cicn of a certain ID and the CDEF is looking for it, things will probably not work correctly. If cicnButton does not work on your setup, I would certainly like to hear about it.

You may use cicnButton CDEF in any public domain, freeware, shareware, or commercial product. I would appreciate a copy of any product in which it is used. Credit would also be nice, though I don't require it.

Source code is available. Please email me for details. Bugs, gripes, comments, etc. should be sent to me (Paul Celestin) at one of the following addresses:

Internet (preferred): celestin@pt.olympus.net
AOL: Celestin
CompuServe: 71630,650

Snail mail:

Paul Celestin
Celestin Company
1152 Hastings Avenue
Port Townsend, WA  98368