COMPATIBILITYAppleTalk Remote Access:If you have ARA's "Answer calls" option selected (from Remote Access Setup from Setup), and you have Eudora configured to use the Communications Toolbox on the same port that ARA uses, Eudora may be unable to connect. This is a conflict between the Communications Toolbox and ARA, and there's nothing I can do about it. Turn "Answer calls" off in ARA if you have this problem. Hayes Modem Tool, Global Village *Port modems: This beta version of Eudora works fine with these, unlike Eudora 1.2.2.Apple Modem Tool:This beta version of Eudora is *incompatible* with version 1.0 of the Apple Modem Tool. You *must* use version 1.1 of the Apple Modem Tool, or the Hayes Modem Tool.Powerbook Modem Tool:This beta version of Eudora is *incompatible* with the PowerBook Modem Tool. Use either the Apple Modem Tool version 1.1 or the Hayes Modem Tool.Quadras:Eudora is incompatible with the screensaver "Moire", when run with the 68040 caches enabled in 32-bit mode. (Don't ask me why; I don't know.) Try "DarkSide" instead.NOW Utilities 4.0:Do *not* use the "reopen documents" feature of the NOW Utilities (or similar programs). It will not work as intended with Eudora, and it is really not necessary anyway. You may disable this option by using the "Disable Re-Launch" menu in the "Exclude..." dialog in the SuperBoomerang control panel.Versions of NOW Utilities prior to 4.0.1 may interfere with setting your text file application or attachment folder in the Configuration dialog. NOW Up-to-Date Reminder 2.0's Show Battery Status option causes crashes when Eudora is printing.  Turn Show Battery Status off.  NOW is aware of the problem, and has promised to fix it.Norton Directory Assistance:Many directory shortcut programs interfere with the dialog that lets you set a folder for attachments (in the Configuration... dialog). Turn such programs off, select your attachments folder, then turn them on. This may be fixed in a future release. Global Village PowerPort ModemsIf you have a PowerPort modem and you want to use Eudora over the modem, you need to use System 7.1 or the Powerbook Tuner init (available from Global Village). Even so, there seems to be some sort of continuing flow control problem. If you get errors on attachments, you may find it helps to set your baud rate to no higher than 9600 baud and set an attachments folder.CAP/aufsVarious Bad Things seem to happen when one's mail is kept on aufs volumes.  Other network filesystems (AppleShare, Personal Filesharing, GatorShare) are fine.Carbon Copy/Mac:There are reports of incompatibility between CC/Mac and Eudora.Apollo:Version 1.0 of the Apollo application launching utility cannot handle long window names (such as Eudora generate) if Apollo is configured to sort windows alphabetically.  Use the Window menus page of the Preferences dialog to set the sorting to front-to-back.