Grant's CGI Framework
(Common Grant Interface :-)
Version 1.0 beta 1

by Grant Neufeld


Grant's CGI Framework is a framework for writing 68K Macintosh CGI applications in C. It currently comes with a CodeWarrior project.

Features:
 - AppleScriptable (including the CGI sdoc event!)
 - Threaded
 - Single function entry-point for customizing to your own needs
 - If you use it to write free applications, it's free to use

Buy me a PowerMac and I'll upgrade it for running on PowerMacs, otherwise you're on your own for PPC compatibility. It will probably compile for PowerPC, but that hasn't been tried.

This is beta software, but it should actually work without problems! Don't bet your life on it though...


How to use this code

Using the Framework Provided

All you have to do is change the contents of the function "MyCGIProcess" found at the end of the file "Main.c".

Using the CGI Utilities in Your Own Application

You must call "InitCGIUtil" in your application startup. The source file calling "InitCGIUtil" must #include "globals.h" and "CGI.h".

You must install "CGIAEHandle" as the event handler for the WWW½sdoc Apple Event.

You must write the function:
	void MyCGIProcess ( CGIHdl theCGIHdl )
which is where you willÑif the name isn't obvious enoughÑdo your application specific processing of the cgi stuff. The prototype for this function is found in "CGI.h".

General Rules

Do not call any functions begining with lower case 'cgi' - you can use any of the others.

Testing

An 'aete' resource that describes the WWW½sdoc Apple Event is included. Just use your favorite script editor to write appropriate test scripts. I've enclosed a very basic example script called "test.script".


Overview of Using this Code to Make Your Own Applications

The official legal stuff is described in the "LICENSE AND LIMITED WARRANTY AGREEMENT" (which should be included with this package).

Basically, this source may be freely used for applications that are free. If you charge for the use of software derived from this source code, you must pay a percentage of the revenue to Grant Neufeld. If your total revenue is US$400 or less you don't have to pay anything (but you can if you want to!). If your total revenue is over US$400, you must pay one percent of total revenue to Grant Neufeld, unless an alternative licensing agreement has been arranged with Grant Neufeld. If you would like to arrange some other licensing agreement, please don't hesitate to contact Grant Neufeld at one of the email addresses listed below. 

The copyright notice must be kept with any source originating from this package.

Please let me know of any enhancements (read: bug fixes) you make to this code so that I can share them with everyone else. I would also like copies of (or discounts on) anything you produce this with, please; but you don't have to if you don't want to.


Further Information

World Wide Web home page:
	http://arpp1.carleton.ca/grant/mac/grantscgi.html

Download
  http://arpp1.carleton.ca/grant/mac/grantscgi.sit.hqx

Notice of upgrades will be posted to macwwwtool@arpp1.carelton.ca
See http://arpp1.carleton.ca/list/macwwwtool.html for details.


Acknowledgements

The original source that this was inspired by is "Responder" written by John O'Fallon. Although I did the whole thing over from scratch to suit my own purposes. See his site: http://www.maxum.com/maxum/

The WebSTARª documentation provided the complete information needed for writing the Apple Event support.

Scott T Boyd and a bunch of others who were at MacHack'95 affected my thinking about this code. (But don't blame them for the outcome, please. It's all my fault.)


About the Author

I, Grant Neufeld, as of this writing, am an applications programmer for InfoDesign Corporation. They have absolutely nothing to do with this project and are in no way associated with it. My current project there is Macintosh based workflow management software (WorkSMARTª).

I also try (in vain) to maintain the MacHTTP & WebSTAR FAQ:
  http://arpp1.carleton.ca/machttp/doc/

See my vanity page for more insight into who I am and what I do:
  http://arpp1.carleton.ca/grant/

Contacting me:
  gneufeld@ccs.carleton.ca (At least until May 1996)
  grant@acm.org
  aa917@freenet.carleton.ca


Copyright ©1995 by Grant Neufeld
