May 16, 1995

CW CDEV Framework 1.1.1

When I moved over to the CodeWarrior environment from Symantec C/C++ (SC),  one of the things I missed was SC’s OOP framework for writing control panels.  CW CDEV Framework is my attempt to bring a similar OOP framework for writing cdev’s to the CodeWarrior environment.

If your not familiar with the SC framework, don’t worry.  You don’t need to know anything about the SC version in order to use the CW framework.  You do, however, need to have some understanding of how to write control panels.  Inside Mac: More Macintosh Toolbox Ch. 8 is a great place to find information on writing control panels.  You’ll also need to know how to use C++ objects.  While I’ve read several books on OOP and C++ programming I’d be hard pressed to recommend any of them (sigh).  For the record though, here are some of the ones I’ve found useful:

The C++ Programming Language, Bjarne Stroustrup, Addison-Wesley, ISBN 0-201-12078-X

The Advanced C++ Book, M. T. Skinner, Silicon Press, ISBN 0-929306-10-4

The Tao of Objects, (sorry I can’t remember the authors name or ISBN #.  I loaned the book out and haven’t gotten it back :)

If you are familiar with the SC CDEV framework, then adjusting to the CW framework should not be too difficult.  The CW framework uses SC's method names (Init(), Close(), etc.), but each method must now return a value indicating success or failure.  Return 0 (zero) for success, anything else for failure.  The CW framework also uses different names for class members than the SC framework.  All in all, the CW framework should be fairly "plug-n-compile".  I've ported an SC framework CDEV to MW using this framework and had everything working in as little as 15 minutes (your mileage may vary ;).  I am indebted to dEVoN Hubbard for his suggestions and efforts to make my initial framework more "porting-friendly".  Much thanks!

dEVoN also contributed the stub CDEV code resource which solves problems assoicated with multi-segment C++ code resources containing virtual functions.  The CDEV.µ project in the Framework folder is already set up to correctly use the stub CDEV code resource, so you don't need to change a thing.  Users of previous versions of CW CDEV Framework should read the "About stubCDEV" document in the "stub CDEV" folder for information on installing the stub CDEV code resource into your existing CDEV project(s).

Rather than go into a lengthy explanation on how to use the framework code, I’ve included a sample CDEV that uses the framework.  Hopefully it should explain things.  Note that the source files in the Sample CDEV folder have the same names as those in the Framework folder.  With the exception of CDEV.cp and CDEV.h, the code contained in the other files *should be identical*.  For your projects, use the files in the Framework folder.  If you have any comments, suggestions, find bugs or have questions about either the framework or sample code please let me hear from you.  My "digital" and "analog" mail addresses are given below.

NOTE:  All CW projects in this distribution have been updated to CW 6 and may not open with previous versions of CW.  All CW projects in this distribution contain an associated projectName.µ.TEXT file that lists all the source files and segmentation for that project.  If you have questions about this or need details beyond those listed in the projectName.µ.TEXT files, please let me know.

If you use the framework for a cdev, I would appreciate at least *one* of the following (your choice ;) :

•	A copy of the final product in which the cdev is used (best ;)
•	An acknowledgment in your credits list (also good ;)
•	An interesting post card via "analog" mail
•	A piece of "digital" mail
•	A "Dew" and a smile :)
•	Just the smile ;)

Please note that I have not set this source code up for PowerMac development.  Once I get a Power Mac I'll work on getting a unified set of code for producing both 68K and PowerMac cdevs.

And now a word or two (or a hundred ;) from our "Legal Staff"...

CW CDEV Framework ("The Framework") is freeware.  Please feel free to use and distribute it.  "The Framework" is not in the public domain, however.  All rights on "The Framework" are reserved by the author Matthew E. Axsom, and this document must accompany the source code whenever "The Framework" is distributed.  "The Framework" source code and sample control panel "Simple Sample" may not be sold commercially (e.g., public domain and shareware disks) without my written permission.  Exceptions are that user's groups and on-line services may distribute it as long as any costs are for the actual cost of the service (i.e., connect time or media costs).  "The Framework" is provided "As Is" without any warranties, and the author assumes no responsibility for any damage caused by the use of the source code or sample control panel.

Hope you enjoy CW CDEV Framework.  It makes my life easier, maybe it’ll help you too.

Peace,

-Chewey
Matthew E. Axsom

Digital Mail:
chewey@top.monad.net
AOL: chew3y

Analog Mail:
New England Software Works
P.O. Box 1346
Keene, NH  03431-1346
