  Certainly you know that when you press command, shift
and the digit 1 your floppy disk is ejected: I wanted
to be able to eject in the same way a CD-ROM, but SCSIeject
works also on a floptical disk or any other external device
which is ejectable by software (but it does not eject SyQuest
disks since they may be ejected only mechanically).
"SCSI 1 eject " ejects the disk on the device with SCSI ID 1,
"SCSI 2 eject " ejects the disk with SCSI ID 2 and so on: apart
from the ID, all the files are identical. If you don't know
the ID of your disk, a number of utilities including SCSI Probe
may tell you that.
 Currently SCSIeject is assigned to cmd-shift-5, but you may
change that.
  This FKEY tries all ways to eject the disk in the regular
way, by unmounting the volume (the icon disappears from the
desktop), if that fails at least putting it offline (grayed
icon) and then asking the device driver to eject the disk.
Only if the device driver fails (or there is no device driver,
or it reports that the disk is not in the drive) it sends an
EJECT command on the SCSI bus.
  A small application "eject all removables" scans the SCSI
bus and sends an EJECT command to any device which declares
to be removable, without caring about the Finder and the
device driver. Probably you should not use it, it's slower
than the FKEY and more dangerous. You should prefer it only
if after ejecting you wish to power off the drive without
restarting your Mac (otherwise, your Mac becomes slow: read
below to understand why, an SCSI operation to a device that
does not respond blocks the Mac for half a second).

  Beware: sometimes the Finder refuses to eject the disk,
but if the disk controller may eject the disk, this FKEY
will eject it anyway. "Eject all removables" will always
eject it by "brute force" without trying to inform your
Macintosh about what it's doing. A disk ejected in that
way may cause problems: the Finder will try to access the
disk without knowing that it's no more there, getting only
error messages, and it's not clever enough to realize what
has happened. On my CD-ROM drive that causes no problem
to the Finder (simply, if you open a folder on the ejected
disk you find it empty even if it isn't), but I don't
know about other device drivers. Furthermore, since the
SCSI bus in the Apple implementation has no event-notification
mechanism, the device driver periodically asks to the device
if a disk was inserted, but usually does not do that if it
believes the disk is present, so after a brute force ejection
a disk insertion is not detected, and if the new disk is not
the same... well, the CD Remote DA is able to play the songs
in the second disk, but if the second disk contains more
songs it can't play the last ones, since the DA did not
update its disk directory.
  That's why the FKEY tries to use the regular methods before
using brute force.
  If the cause of the software refusing to eject the disk is
AppleTalk file sharing, you may try an utility from Apple
named "UnmountIt" (which disables file sharing, terminating
any operation on any of your disks from remote users, unmounts
the disk, then enables file sharing). It's free and very small,
but its copyright notice does not allow me to include it within
this file without authorization, so you'll have to find it by
yourself.
  I hope you know how an FKEY must be installed and how you may
change its number: if you have ResEdit, you may open the file
containing the FKEY, change its resource ID, then paste the
resource into the System file. But that's not for beginners !
Otherwise, the fkey directory of the best public domain archives
for the Mac contains a number of applications which may do that,
and usually have the necessary documentation.

  SCSI eject is freeware.

  I think there should be no problems with this FKEY, but just
in case you may contact me by E-mail in Internet:

		                        Sauro Speranza
								speranza@cirfid.unibo.it (preferred)
								or: speranza@cs.unibo.it


           17 July 1993
		                        Sauro & Gabriele Speranza