This is Mac-specific info for Xconq."Xconq" is the game application.  It has been tested on a variety of Macs, from Powerbook 100s up to PowerMacs, running 7.0.x to 7.1.  Xconq doesn't do any really weird tricks, but it REQUIRES SYSTEM 7."lib" is the folder of game modules; it should be in the same folder as the application."lib-mac" is the folder of Mac-specific data referenced by game modules, and should be in the same folder as the application.  Xconq doesn't absolutely need it, but it is where sounds and pictures and such are kept."doc" is the folder with all documentation for players and game designers.  The format is Texinfo, which is based on TeX, which you'll need TeXtures or OzTeX and the (include) texinfo.tex file to format."IMFApp" is a small utility for game designers to display and convert images used in Xconq games.You may also see other files or folders, with names like "README" or "kernel" or "x11".  These will be either part of the source code for Xconq, or else information specific to the other types of computers for which Xconq is available.How To Use The Mac InterfaceThe following is a brief description, suitable for getting started.  The manual provides full details on every aspect of Xconq.When you launch Xconq, the initial screen gives you four choices: New, which brings up a list of games;  Open, which allows you to pick a file;  Connect, which will [when implemented] allow you to pick a game to join;  and Quit, which lets you escape.Usually you will want to choose New, which brings up a dialog listing all the games.  You can select one and see a brief description of it.  It may also have a picture.If the game includes any variants, you will then get a dialog with assorted buttons and checkboxes to choose from.  For instance, some games let you choose whether the whole world is visible when you start, or if you have to explore it first.  [There should be help info for each variant, but it's not implemented yet]Not all of the games work equally well!   You may get some warning alerts.  These are often benign, such as missing images, while others indicate problems ahead.  Xconq will not crash, but you may have difficulty playing the game (all-black or all-gray screen, most commands disabled, that sort of thing).Xconq takes a little while to read in the complete game definition; then you get a player setup window, which shows the sides that will be in the game and who will play each side.  Usually you will just want to OK it, but you can also select a side/player entry and change the name of the side,  and whether it has an AI (artificial intelligence - a robot player).  Some games allow you to add sides - use the "Add" button.  If you don't like the side you've been assigned to play, you can use the "Exchange" button to switch with somebody else.Then Xconq will finish setting up the game.  For some games, this will take quite a while!  Xconq generates random terrain, lays out countries that are neither too close nor too far apart, and does many other things at this point, so just kick back and watch.You may get a warning that "sides have undesirable locations".  This usually means that the world is too small for the number of sides that were set up.  This doesn't matter to Xconq, but can have a big effect on play balance and fairness; some sides may find their territory mixed in with their enemies', or simply too close to be able to defend it adequately.  If you don't care, then just ignore the warning.Once everything is set up, Xconq then opens up a map window, the game status window, and the instructions window for you.  The map shows you the terrain with different patterns, and your playing pieces (units) with small pictures, while game status lists sides and turn number or date.  The instructions window tells you what your goal is, and maybe something about how to accomplish it.(In some games, the AI gets the drop on you and may start bashing on you almost before your display has finished coming up.  Life is tough sometimes!)Display and interaction is still evolving, but the basic gist is to select a unit in a map or list window, and pick commands from the "Play" menu.  By default, Xconq starts up in "auto-select" mode, which means that Xconq will select a unit for you to command, and when it is done moving, Xconq will automatically select the next one to command.  Xconq also enables "move-on-click" by default, which means that clicking on a map immediately commands the selected unit to move there.You can toggle auto-select/move-on-click mode on or off by clicking the big six-arrow icon in the map's control panel, or by choosing menu items in the "Side" menu.When auto-select is OFF, you can select by clicking on a unit, shift-clicking a group, dragging out a selection rectangle, or by using Command-A to select all units.  A selected unit is indicated by an outline box - solid black to indicate that it can move this turn, dark gray to indicate that it has used up its moves for this turn, and gray to indicate that it cannot do anything at all.When move-on-click is OFF, to move a selected unit, drag it to its desired new location.  The unit might not move right away if it doesn't have the action points, but it may get some in the next turn.  If you don't want to drag, or need to scroll somewhere else first, you can Command-click and all selected units will attempt to move to where you clicked.To shoot at another unit, you can position the mouse over the desired target, type 'f', and all selected units will attempt to fire.  This works even if all units are selected, so you can call down considerable destruction with 'f'!  If the target is too far away, nothing will happen.To find out more about a particular unit, select it and pick "Closeup" from the "Play" menu or do Command-I.  This brings up a window that shows all kind of data about that unit.  You can leave this window up and it will always be kept up-to-date.  You can only do this with some units, usually your own.  All that you can know about an enemy's unit is already displayed (type, side, and position).To jump ahead to the next turn, do the menu command "End Turn" or Command-E, or hit the <return> key.  You may have to do this if some of your units still have action points, but not enough to do any of the actions that you want them to do.  To stop being asked about a particular unit, you can either do 's' or choose the Sleep item from the Play menu to put it to sleep, or Command-D or Reserve to put it in reserve until the next turn.  Sleeping units stay asleep until you wake them manually (with 'w' or the menu item).  If you just want to postpone moving the unit until later in the turn, use the delay command 'd'.The Game window shows the status of all the sides in the game, including how many actions each side has left to do, who has lost or won already, each side's attitude towards you (a frowny face means that side is keen to destroy you utterly), and whether it is being played by a human or by the computer.There are many more commands and options available.  These are documented in both the help screens and in the manual.The help screens are organized as a list of "topics" that you can select by clicking on.  The help information about the game you're playing is computed directly from the internal tables describing the game, so it is an accurate description.  [It may still be incomplete though - not all tables and values are output.]BugsXconq has many bugs large and small, but actual crashes are rare.  What is more common is that the program will get into a state where you don't know what's happening, or why.If units disappear strangely, or if the map is scrambled somehow, type 'Control-R', which recalculates visibility of everything.You may get one or more warning alerts when starting up or playing some games.  The manual describes a number of them and what they mean, so you can decide whether to ignore them.  If you don't understand a warning, it's safest just to quit.How to Get More InfoYou probably want more info about Xconq.  There are several sources.   For more info about the Mac interface, look in doc-mac, in particular the "Mac Xconq Guide".  The full 200+ page general Xconq manual is in "doc".  The bulk of the manual is for game designers rather than players, but it has a lot of useful information for everybody.Finally, Xconq is free software.  This means that you can get all the source code, can do anything you like with it, and you can give the original or the changed version to anybody else, whenever you want.  This also means that if you are a programmer, and you want to know more than just what is in the documentation, you can go to the sources for the real answers.  The last chapter of the Xconq manual describes some of the overall internal design.PLEASE identify, clearly, any changes you make to an "official" release - this will be of immeasurable help to me, other Xconq hackers, and players.  On several occasions, I have gotten bug reports complaining about code that I had never seen or heard of before!  Even so, I do enjoy hearing about and seeing any improvements, fixes, and suggestions, and will try to incorporate them in future versions of Xconq.						Stan Shebs						shebs@cygnus.comThanks to the many Xconq players and hackers around the net who have contributed literally hundreds of suggestions, fixes, and improvements.  The manual includes more detailed acknowledgments.I would like to specially acknowledge Troy Gaul, the author of the Infinity Windoid WDEF used by Mac Xconq; this WDEF is a fine piece of code that has been completely trouble-free to use.