PassODocs v1.0© 1995 by Dave NebingerHistory:	While putting together some source code for Paul's great Apprentice 3 CD, I was working with	an old application that wouldn't allow me to drop documents on it.  I knew it could handle the	apple events, but I suppose that either my desktop DB was hosed or the bundle bits were not	set correctly.		After spending a little time trying to figure out what was going on (to no avail), I decided to	bypass the problem and let another application pass the documents to the other application	via apple events.		And PassODocs was born.	Notes:		PassODocs takes any documents that are dropped on it and passes them to it's designated	target application.  The target application can be set either by modifying the 'ATyp' resource	id 128 in the application or by using the preferences dialog from within the application.		Yes, that's right, the prefs are stored in the resource fork of the application.  I did it this way	because it allows for multiple copies of PassODocs that point to different target applications	to coexist peacefully without having to develop a complicated preference-file handling scheme.		Besides, it *is* just a quick and dirty hack, remember...		Sometimes the code to launch an application will fail with the error -43 (fnfErr, or file not found).	This means that for some reason the code to look in the desktop database fails.  I am not sure	why this is happening (I didn't have time to look for it), but most of the time it succeeds.		Anyway, it is a pretty good example of a simple application to handle apple events and dropped	files, as well as some interesting modal dialog filters and user dialog items.  The prefs dialog	also displays help messages (ala Symantec's Think Project Manager).		Use and enjoy!	Environment:		The 68k version of PassODocs was built using Symantec C++ v7.04.  The PPC and Fat	versions were built using Symantec C++ version 8.01 (Rainbow!).	Author:		Dave Nebinger	4129 Deerfield Drive	Harrisburg, PA 17112   (USA)		dnebing@epix.net	PS:	Remember that PassODocs will modify it's own resource fork when saving the preferences, so it	should not be executed from a locked disk or read-only server.	PPS:		No warranties, guaranties, etc., either implied or otherwise.  Use at your own risk.